demo git over TCP tunnel (#2901)
pomerium/pomerium: docs/docs/tcp/git.md

---

# Tunneled Git Connections

When hosting a self-hosted Git server like [GitLab](/guides/gitlab.md) behind Pomerium, you can protect desktop client access to the source code with the same identity-aware access as the web interface using an encrypted TCP tunnel.

 ## Basic Connection

 1. Create a TCP tunnel, using either [`pomerium-cli`](/docs/releases.md#pomerium-cli) or the Pomerium Desktop client. These examples use Git connections over SSH:

    ::::: tabs
    :::: tab pomerium-cli
    ```bash
    pomerium-cli tcp git.corp.example.com:22 --listen :2202
    ```

    :::tip --listen
    The `--listen` flag is optional. It lets you define what port the tunnel listens on locally. If not specified, the client will choose a random available port.
    :::

    ::::
    :::: tab Pomerium Desktop
    ![An example connection to a Git service from Pomerium Desktop](./img/desktop/example-git-connection.png)

    :::tip Local Address
    The **Local Address** field is optional. Using it defines what port the tunnel listens on locally. If not specified, Pomerium Desktop will choose a random available port.
    :::

    ::::
    :::::

> 1. Add the tunneled connection as a remote for your local repository:

Author: ```suggestion
1. Clone the repository using the tunneled connection as a remote:
```
```suggestion
1. Add the tunneled connection as a remote for your local repository:
```

    ```bash

>     git remote add gitlab-tunneled ssh://git@127.0.0.1:2202/username/project-name

Reviewer: This might be smoother if you demonstrate a `clone` since it wouldn't require an existing checkout.

```suggestion
    git clone ssh://git@127.0.0.1:2202/username/project-name
```

    ```

Now when you first initiate a `pull`, `push`, or `fetch` command your web browser will open to authenticate and authorize the connection.

## Always Tunnel through Pomerium

Because Git uses the SSH protocol, we can define a `Host` block in our local SSH configuration file to initiate the tunneled connection whenever it's needed.

1. Open your local SSH configuration file at `~/.ssh/config` and add a new Hosts `block`:

    ```bash
    Host git-tunnel
      HostName git.corp.example.com
      User git

>       ProxyCommand /usr/bin/pomerium-cli tcp --listen - %h:%p

Reviewer: pomerium-cli might be in different locations.  The command should be found in your current path.

```suggestion
      ProxyCommand pomerium-cli tcp --listen - %h:%p
```

    ```

> 1. For each repository, add a remote using this host:

Author: ```suggestion
1. For each repository, clone using this host:
```
```suggestion
1. For each repository, add a remote using this host:
```

    ```bash

>     git remote add origin git@git-tunnel:userName/projectName

Reviewer: As above, a clone might be a better choice.

```suggestion
    git clone git@git-tunnel:userName/projectName
```
